{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14540\viewh12220\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 README
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b Rember v.0.3.1b
\f1\b0 \
\
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Eddie Kelley <eddie@kelleycomputing.net>\
\
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify\
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by\
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or\
    (at your option) any later version.\
\
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri560\ql\qnatural
\cf0     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7940\tx8640\ri700\ql\qnatural
\cf0     GNU General Public License for more details.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License\
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software\
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  \
\
 
\f0\b ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\

\f1\b0 \
This is a GUI "wrapper" for the "memtest" command line program.\
\
Memtest  is available at: http://www.memtestosx.org.\
\
Rember is available at http://www.kelleycomputing.net/rember\
\
This software is free, and is covered under the GNU GPL. Please read "COPYING" for more info.\
\

\f0\b Instructions:\

\f1\b0 \
To run this application, copy it to any folder on your hard drive (Applications, Utilities, Desktop, etc.).  When you open the program, you have two tabs to select from: "Rember" and "Log".  The Rember tab will let you select the number of test loops to perform, and the amount of memory to test *.  The Log tab will display the output of the "memtest" process at run time.\
\
As of version 0.2b, there are Preferences that allow the user to quit all running applications, and/or the Finder.  This allows for more available testing memory.  There are now "Verbose" options in Preferences, and the "Log" view.  This will toggle an output filter, displaying more/less output from memtest.\
\
Version 0.3b contains a 64-bit version of memtest, breaking memory testing barriers that were present in past versions.  It is also possible to stop testing upon the detection of errors.  Preferences are now saved in user defaults.\
\
You do not need to install the memtest program for this application to work (Rember includes memtest inside of its application bundle).  If you would like to run the memtest program from the command line (this also includes single user mode), see the "READMEFIRST" file inside of the "Memtest411.dmg" archive in the enclosing disk image.  \
\
* Note that this application will only allocate as much free physical memory as it can for testing.  This will not run tests on all blocks of memory, as all memory is not available when booted into the Finder.  To do more thorough tests, see the "READMEFIRST" file in the "Memtest411.dmg" package.  This describes how to run "memtest" in single user mode.\
\

\f0\b ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Version Changes:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18720\tx19200\tx19680\tx20160\tx20640\tx21120\tx21600\tx22080\tx22560\tx23040\tx23520\tx24000\tx24480\tx24960\tx25440\tx25920\tx26400\tx26880\tx27360\tx27840\tx28320\tx28800\tx29280\tx29760\tx30240\tx30720\tx31200\tx31680\tx32160\tx32640\tx33120\tx33600\tx34080\tx34560\tx35040\tx35520\tx36000\tx36480\tx36960\tx37440\tx37920\tx38400\tx38880\tx39360\tx39840\tx40320\tx40800\tx41280\tx41760\tx42240\tx42720\tx43200\tx43680\tx44160\tx44640\tx45120\tx45600\tx46080\tx46560\tx47040\tx47520\tx48000\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 v. 0.1b	9/3/2004	Initial beta release.\
\
v. 0.1.04b	9/5/2004	minor minor version change\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li740\fi-740\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 				\'a5 Now uses spinning progressIndicator in main 			Nib file to lower the amount of processor used by 			Rember application.\
\
				\'a5 Uses updated version (4.04M) of memtest 				executable.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18720\tx19200\tx19680\tx20160\tx20640\tx21120\tx21600\tx22080\tx22560\tx23040\tx23520\tx24000\tx24480\tx24960\tx25440\tx25920\tx26400\tx26880\tx27360\tx27840\tx28320\tx28800\tx29280\tx29760\tx30240\tx30720\tx31200\tx31680\tx32160\tx32640\tx33120\tx33600\tx34080\tx34560\tx35040\tx35520\tx36000\tx36480\tx36960\tx37440\tx37920\tx38400\tx38880\tx39360\tx39840\tx40320\tx40800\tx41280\tx41760\tx42240\tx42720\tx43200\tx43680\tx44160\tx44640\tx45120\tx45600\tx46080\tx46560\tx47040\tx47520\tx48000\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \CocoaLigature0 v. 0.2.0b		9/10/2004	minor version change\
\
					\'a5 total GUI overhaul.  \
					\'a5 Preferences added.  \
					\'a5 Verbose logging (filtering) function added\
					\'a5 Test progress in status field\
					\'a5 loop counter\
					\'a5 application/Finder quit functions\
\
v. 0.2.1b		9/23/2004	minor minor version change\
\
					\'a5 Preferences window is now a sheet\
					\'a5 Save option for log details\
					\'a5 Dock menu added\
					\'a5 Icon added \
\
v 0.2.2b		12/4/2004	minor minor version change\
			\
					\'a5 Performance enhancements\
					\'a5 Icon touch-up\
\
v 0.2.3b		1/25/2005	minor minor version change\
			\
					\'a5 Uses updated version (4.05M) of memtest executable\
						- errors in memory testing are reported \
					\'a5 Rember reports errors (Rember source unmodified)\CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18720\tx19200\tx19680\tx20160\tx20640\tx21120\tx21600\tx22080\tx22560\tx23040\tx23520\tx24000\tx24480\tx24960\tx25440\tx25920\tx26400\tx26880\tx27360\tx27840\tx28320\tx28800\tx29280\tx29760\tx30240\tx30720\tx31200\tx31680\tx32160\tx32640\tx33120\tx33600\tx34080\tx34560\tx35040\tx35520\tx36000\tx36480\tx36960\tx37440\tx37920\tx38400\tx38880\tx39360\tx39840\tx40320\tx40800\tx41280\tx41760\tx42240\tx42720\tx43200\tx43680\tx44160\tx44640\tx45120\tx45600\tx46080\tx46560\tx47040\tx47520\tx48000\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \CocoaLigature0 v.0.3b		8/18/2005	minor version change\
\
					\'a5 Uses new version of memtest executable (4.11)\
					\'a5 Added "Continue on Error" preference\
\
\CocoaLigature1 v.0.3.1b		12/22/2005\
			\
					\'a5 Uses updated version (4.12) of memtest executable\
					\'a5 Now saves preferences with user defaults\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ri1140\ql\qnatural
\cf0 ---------\
Rember v0.3.1b\
www.kelleycomputing.net/rember}